config/README.md, before:

# LlamaFarm Configuration Module

Utilities for loading, validating, and working with `llamafarm.yaml`.

## What It Does
- Loads project configuration from `llamafarm.yaml` (YAML only).
- Validates against `config/schema.yaml` (which in turn references `rag/schema.yaml`).
- Provides generated Pydantic/Go types for editor autocomplete and runtime safety.
- Offers helpers used by the CLI and server to resolve namespaces, projects, and runtime settings.

## Key Files
| Path | Purpose |
| ---- | ------- |
| `schema.yaml` | JSON Schema for the project config (`version`, `runtime`, `prompts`, `rag`, `datasets`). |
| `datamodel.py` | Auto-generated Pydantic models consumed by Python components. |
| `config_types.go` | Auto-generated Go structs consumed by the CLI. |
| `generate-types.sh` | Script that regenerates both datamodels from the schema. |

## Regenerating Types
Run this whenever you change `schema.yaml` or update anything referenced by it (e.g., `rag/schema.yaml`).

```bash
cd config
./generate-types.sh
```

The script installs `datamodel-code-generator` if needed and updates `datamodel.py` / `config_types.go` in place.

## Loading Configs in Python
```python
from config import load_config
from config.datamodel import LlamaFarmConfig

cfg: LlamaFarmConfig = load_config()              # Finds llamafarm.yaml automatically
print(cfg.runtime.provider)                       # "openai" or "ollama"
print(cfg.rag.databases[0].default_retrieval_strategy)
```

## Schema Highlights
- `version`: Must be `v1`.
- `runtime`: Requires `provider`, `model`, and (for non-default hosts) `base_url`/`api_key`. Supports optional `instructor_mode` and `model_api_parameters`.
- `prompts`: An array of `{role, content}` entries injected before the conversation.
- `rag`: Inlines the full RAG schema (databases, embedding strategies, retrieval strategies, data processing strategies).
- `datasets`: Optional list used to keep dataset metadata in sync with the server.

Refer to the [Configuration Guide](../docs/website/docs/configuration/index.md) for user-facing documentation and field descriptions.

## Tests
```bash
uv run --group test python -m pytest config/tests
```

These tests ensure schema validation stays compatible with generated types and server expectations.

Commit message:

feat: auto generate datamodel (#278)
* feat: datamodel generation

* chore: remove generated datamodel.py from version control

* fix(build): missing dependency

* fix: generate datamodel for tests

* fix: config datamodel in CI

* fix: split long lines

* fix: access generated datamodel

* fix: increase start period

* fix: generate config schema

* fix: test services startup

* fix: dependency management

* chore: clean up debug logs

config/README.md, after:

# LlamaFarm Configuration Module

Utilities for loading, validating, and working with `llamafarm.yaml`.

## What It Does
- Loads project configuration from `llamafarm.yaml` (YAML only).
- Validates against `config/schema.yaml` (which in turn references `rag/schema.yaml`).
- Provides generated Pydantic/Go types for editor autocomplete and runtime safety.
- Offers helpers used by the CLI and server to resolve namespaces, projects, and runtime settings.

## Key Files
| Path | Purpose |
| ---- | ------- |
| `schema.yaml` | JSON Schema for the project config (`version`, `runtime`, `prompts`, `rag`, `datasets`). |
| `datamodel.py` | **Auto-generated** Pydantic models consumed by Python components. |
| `cli/cmd/config/types.go` | Hand-written Go structs consumed by the CLI. |
| `generate-types.sh` | Script that regenerates Python datamodels from the schema. |

## Datamodel Generation

The `datamodel.py` file is **auto-generated** from `schema.yaml` and should not be edited manually.

### When to regenerate:
- After modifying `config/schema.yaml` or `rag/schema.yaml`
- When pulling changes that modify the schemas
- If you see import errors from `config.datamodel`

### How to regenerate locally:
```bash
cd config
./generate-types.sh
```

### CI/CD:
Datamodels are automatically generated during CI builds. The `datamodel.py` file is not committed to git and will be in your `.gitignore`.

### Troubleshooting:
- **Import errors**: Run `./generate-types.sh` to regenerate
- **Generation fails**: Check that `schema.yaml` is valid YAML
- **CI fails**: Ensure all schema references are valid

The script installs `datamodel-code-generator` if needed and updates `datamodel.py` in place.

## Loading Configs in Python
```python
from config import load_config
from config.datamodel import LlamaFarmConfig

cfg: LlamaFarmConfig = load_config()              # Finds llamafarm.yaml automatically
print(cfg.runtime.provider)                       # "openai" or "ollama"
print(cfg.rag.databases[0].default_retrieval_strategy)
```

## Schema Highlights
- `version`: Must be `v1`.
- `runtime`: Requires `provider`, `model`, and (for non-default hosts) `base_url`/`api_key`. Supports optional `instructor_mode` and `model_api_parameters`.
- `prompts`: An array of `{role, content}` entries injected before the conversation.
- `rag`: Inlines the full RAG schema (databases, embedding strategies, retrieval strategies, data processing strategies).
- `datasets`: Optional list used to keep dataset metadata in sync with the server.

Refer to the [Configuration Guide](../docs/website/docs/configuration/index.md) for user-facing documentation and field descriptions.

## Tests
```bash
uv run --group test python -m pytest config/tests
```

These tests ensure schema validation stays compatible with generated types and server expectations.
